# Extraction_components_Electroencephalography_signal

Extraction target components of Electroencephalography signals using Common Spatial Subspace Decomposition.
In cognitive neuroscience, one of the most important goals is to understand the neuronal fields that lead to cognitive activities at different levels. Cognitive activities include low-level vision, hearing, and movement control, and high-level activities such as attention control, memory, and learning.
In order to relate behavior and neuronal activity in the brain, scientists design cognitive tasks. the subject is supposed to perform the cognitive activity in the test sessions while his or her brain signals are recorded in a variety of ways.
Then, from the analysis of behavioral data along with the recorded brain signals, information is extracted about how neuronal activity leads to behavior; Such as identifying the neural networks affecting the cognitive activity, how the functional communication of different parts of the brain and the relationship of different behavioral stimuli with neuronal responses in the brain.
Different behaviors with neuronal responses in the brain. There are several methods to record brain signals at different levels, from single neurons to neuronal populations and areas of the brain. One of the most common methods for recording brain signals that is very useful for humans is electroencephalography recording.

In this presentation, **Common spatial subspace decomposition(CSSD)**  was used to extract the components related to each of the test conditions and the independent components in the signals. Using this algorithm, spatial factors filters are obtained to separate the signal components of each of the test conditions. And, the target components of the signal are obtained by applying these spatial factors and filters to the Electroencephalogram/Magnetoencephalogram signal. 

The basis of this algorithm is the simultaneous use of diagonalization of two true symmetric matrices and spatio-temporal modeling of the source. In this algorithm, the covariance of the data matrix is first estimated for each condition. Then the whitening conversion matrix and the spatial factor matrix are made from them. Using the specific values of the modified data matrix, the spatial factor is obtained which is the result of applying the spatial factor matrix to the modified data matrix. After applying the whitening matrix on the modified data matrix, a space filter is obtained. By applying this Spatial filter to the initial data matrix, the desired components of the electroencephalographic signal of the desired conditions are obtained.
